# Supermart-Sales-Dashboard
OVERVIEW - To contribute to the success of a business utilizing data analysis techniques,specially focusing on time series analysis,to provide valuable insights and accurate sales forecasting.
OVERVIEW - Firstly region wise filters are present that allow user to explore the data at various level of granualarity.We made KPI'S(Key Performance Indicator)which is generally used to summarise our Dashboard.We made 5 kpi's specifying Overall Sales,Over profit,sum of quantity,average delivery date which tells us average days company take to deliver the product and average order value(toatal sales/total quantity).We made area chart to analyze Monthly Sales And Monthly Profit.donut charts are present to analyze proportion of profit based on category,region wise sales proportion as well as sales based on payment mode.
we made barchart to analyze sales based on category as well as sales based on subcategory,state wise sales are present to analyze data.We also made map cahrt which analyze State wise sales and profit .
Sales Forecasting - Leverage historic data and apply time series analysis to generate sales forecast for next 15 days.we forecast sales for next 15 days.
Data cleaning and processing - We remove empty columns,Detect data types check null values and replace some values in the table.
Dax Queries Used - Average delivery days= DATEDIFF('SuperStore_Sales_Dataset'[Order Date],'SuperStore_Sales_Dataset'[Ship Date],DAY) used for determining average days required to deliver the product.
2. Average order value- ('SuperStore_Sales_Dataset'[Sales]/'SuperStore_Sales_Dataset'[Quantity]) which determines average vaue of the product.
Insights and Learnings-Total sales made by store in 2 years  is almost (1.57M) out of which Maximum proportion of sales are contributed by west region arount(33%) AND in State California(0.33M) and in new york around (0.19M).Total profit made in 2 years (175k) out of which maximum profit contributed by west region around(68k).maximum proportion of sales are contributed by  category office and supplies(0.64 M)But the maximum proportion of profit contribute by technology category.major proportion of sales are contributed by cash on delivery(43%) payment mode and in standard class around(0.91M) in ship mode.
out of (1.57M) highest sales took place in the month of december approx (78 k) in 2019 and (1 lakh 68 k )in 2020 .the highest profit was made in december and the lowest profit made in april month.forecasting for next 15 days are given which predicts min and maximum sales for that particular day.
Learning - Incorporated data analysis techniques,specializing in time series analysis,to deliver valuable insights,accurate sales forecasting ,and interactive dashboard creation,during business success.
Thankyou
